## Introduction
### The Little Book of Common-Sense Investing
Buffet – Newtons 4th law of motion. Investor return decrease as motion increases. Winning Strategy for investing is to buy a fund that holds all market portfolio and hold it forever.The index fund eliminates the risks of individual stocks, market sectors, and manager selection. Only stock market risk remains, which is large.A traditional index fund operates with minimal expenses, no advisory fees, with tiny portfolio turnover, and high tax efficiency.Investing in equities long term is a winner's game.The returns earned by business are ultimately translated into the stock market.Active Investing is a zero-sum game, for every person that beats the market by 1% someone else lost by 1%.Mutual fund investors are confident they can easily select the right fund managers. They are WRONG.When the stock temporarily overperforms or underperforms the business, a limited number of shareholders receive outsized benefits at the expense of those they trade with…. Over time, the aggregate gains made must of necessity match the business gains of the company.The stock market returns must equal the business returns over a long period. But this goes up and down in cycles. As investors are willing to pay higher or lower P/E.Investment yield on stocks (dividends plus dividend earnings growth) tracks with the total market return. About 9.5% for the last 100 years.Reversions to the mean – Tendency for P/E ratios to return to their long-term norms over time.Economics controls the long-term stock market return. Emotions control the short term. Accurately predicting short term emotions is impossible.Occam's razor – when there are multiple solutions to a problem, choose the most simple.Solution – buy and hold a diversified, low cost portfolio that tracks the stock market.Investors as a group must earn precisely the market return, BEFORE THE COSTS OF INVESTING ARE DEDUCTED – when we subtract all the fees, turnover, taxes, commissions, sales loads, advertising, and legal fees – the returns of investors will fall short of the market by precisely those costs. The lower these costs the better.Before costs, beating the market is a zero-sum game, after costs, it is a loser's game.Focus on the lowest cost funds – the more managers take, the less investors make.Don't invest in funds based on past performance. Performance comes and goes. But costs go on forever.Costs.Expense Ratio.Sales Charge.Purchase and sale of securities or turnover.Assume the turnover costs equal 1% the turnover rate. IE - 100% turnover = 1%. 50% turnover = 0.5%.Low cost funds beat high cost funds.Most equity fund investors actually get lower returns than the funds they invest in.…. why? Counterproductive market timing and adverse fund selection. Most investors put money in as a fund is rising and pull money out as it is falling. Investors chase past performance.Actively managed funds are tax inefficient due to turnover.Fund returns are devastated by costs, adverse fund section, bad timing, taxes and inflation.Don't look for the needle, just buy the whole haystack.355 equity funds from 1970 to 2006 – 80% had gone out of business. Only 2 of the 355 funds had superior performance during this time (beat the index by 2%) 8 funds beat the index by 1%. The odds of you picking one of these funds is extremely low.As the active fund does better, it has more inflows of cash which makes it difficult to maintain that advantage.Picking a winner based on the past is hazardous duty.Over the long-term stocks have provided higher returns than bonds, so why own bonds?.Bonds have beat stocks in 42 of the last 112 years.They reduce volatility in the portfolio.Investors who seek to increase yields in their bonds by investing in junk bonds should be careful. If you are going to do it make it a very small percent of your portfolio.Long term bonds are much more volatile than short term.Ben Graham – The average manager cannot obtain better results than the S+P 500. Investors should be content with earning the markets return. Only low-cost index investing can guarantee that outcome.Asset allocation accounts for 94% of return. 2 factors that determine how you should allocate your portfolio.Ability to take risk – depends on financial position, liabilities, years. In general, you are able to take more risks the longer time horizon you have.Willingness to take risk – matter of preference. Some investors can handle the up and downs. If you can't sleep at night, you have too much risk.These two factors determine your risk tolerance.Rebalance portfolios at most once per year.
### The Bogleheads Guide to Investing
Have a 3 month to 1-year emergency fund available. Most people 6 months is good.How much you save is the primary driver of wealth accumulation.Buying a new car every few years can decrease your net worth more than anything.Stock – you are an owner in the business.Bond – you are a creditor.Make sure you put your least tax efficient funds in a tax-sheltered account and your more efficient funds in a taxable account. Stocks are more tax efficient than bonds.Order from least to most tax efficient.High-Yield Bonds – least tax efficient.International Bonds.Taxable Domestic Bonds.TIPS.REITs.Balanced Funds.Active Stock funds.Stock trading accounts.Small cap stocks.Large value stocks.International Stocks.Large growth stocks.Stock index funds.Tax managed funds.EE and I bonds.Money Market funds.Municipal bonds – most tax efficient.Don't try to time the market. You can't do it. No one knows where it will be next year.A large study was done on financial newsletters, "experts", and TV shows and it was determined there is no evidence that they can time the market and consistent with mutual fund studies, winners rarely win again and losers often lose again.Picking mutual funds based on Morningstar's rating system doesn't work. 5-star portfolios have underperformed the S+P 500.Rebalancing works on the theory of RTM (reversion to the mean) so you are essentially selling high and buying low.You can rebalance by selling your winners, putting new money into the underweight funds, or instead of reinvesting dividends, direct them toward the underweight funds. Think about the tax consequences of this if the funds are in a taxable account.It is not a good idea to not rebalance and let your winner's ride. If you had done this in the late 90's, tech would have been massively overweighed in your portfolio and you would have taken a huge hit. But if you rebalanced, you locked in some of those gains.Tune out the "noise".No one knows what the market will do short term.Mutual fund reporters lead a secret life. By day they write "Six funds to buy NOW!!!! By night, they invest in index funds.
### Simple Path to Wealth
Money is the single most powerful tool we have for navigating this complex world we have created, understanding it is critical. If you choose to master it, money becomes a wonderful servant. If you don't, it will surely master you.Complex investments exist only to profit those who create and sell them.Avoid fiscally irresponsible people and don't marry one.Spend less than you earn, invest the difference and avoid debt.Money can buy many things, but nothing more valuable than your freedom.Being independently wealthy is every bit as much about limiting needs as it is about how much money you have.It has nothing to do with how much you earn.High income people go broke.Low-income people gain financial independence.Money can buy many things, none of which is more important than your financial independence.Avoid investment advisors.Sound investing isn't complicated.Try to save 50% of your income.Save a portion of every dollar you earn.If you intend to achieve financial freedom, you are going to have to think differently. It starts with recognizing that debt should not be considered normal.No one can predict when drops in the market will happen.Financial independence is about having options (Fuck You Money!!).Avoid debt at all costs.Those who live paycheck to paycheck are slaves.Many people never learn HOW to think about money. It isn't about buying stuff.Remember the lost "Opportunity Costs" of things we buy.You can't time the market, so don't even try.If you could time the market, you would be better than Warren Buffett.Market crashes are to be expected.Toughen up, learn to ignore the noise and ride out the storms.Why most people lose money in the market.They think they can time it – they can't.The majority of investors get worse returns than the funds they pick. Why? Bad timing.They believe they can pick individual stocks – they can't.They believe they can pick the right mutual fund managers – they can't.82+% of funds fail to outperform the index.They watch CNBC and worry about the day-to-day instead of worrying about long term.Never buy stocks on margin.Governments love a little inflation. They can add a little money to the system, keep the economy going and not have to raise taxes or cut spending to do it. That is why it is called the "Hidden Tax" because it erodes the buying power of our currency. It also allows debts (like governments) to pay back their creditors with "cheaper dollars".Stocks are a good inflation hedge in the long term.There is no risk-free investment. Even cash under your mattress has inflation risk.2 stages in life – not necessarily tied to your age.Wealth Accumulation – working, saving and adding money to investments.Wealth Preservation – earned income slows or stops. Your investments are now left to grow and/or provide income for you.Simple is good, Simple is easier, Simple is more profitable.Be a long-term investor.Asset Allocation Rule of Thumb.100 – age in stocks.120 – age in stocks if you want to be more aggressive.3 funds needed to build a portfolio.Vanguard Total Stock Market Index (VTSAX).Vanguard Total Bond Market Index (VBTLX).Vanguard Total International Stock Market Index (VTIAX)*.Cash or Money Market Fund (Emergency Fund).Stocks are the wealth builder and inflation hedge; bonds are the deflation hedge and you have cash for emergencies.Low cost, simple, and effective.* (If Desired) He doesn't personally see the need for international funds but doesn't strongly oppose owning them either.The other fund option is a Vanguard (or equivalent fund family) Target Date Fund (TDF). They are likely to be found in 401k options. They are an excellent choice.Indexing is good because the odds of selecting stocks that outperform (although not impossible) are vanishingly small, better results will be achieved by buying the stocks in the index.Many people still don't like to index… why?.It is difficult for smart people to accept that they can't outperform the index.It means you are accepting the market "average" return.The financial media is full of stores of people who outperformed the index for a few years.Over periods of 15-30 years though, 82-99% of the indexes will win.People underestimate the fees they pay to managers.People want exciting, quick results and bragging rights. Buying an index and holding long term isn't exciting. Get your excitement someplace else.There is a huge business selling advise and doing trades to people who can be persuaded to believe they can outperform.Indexing is easier, simpler and more effective at building wealth than alternatives.Bonds are our deflation hedge; stocks are our inflation hedge.Bonds also tend to be less volatile than stocks and smooth out the road.Difference between stocks and bonds.Stocks – you are buying ownership in the company.Bonds – you are loaning money to the company or government.Deflation is when the price of stuff falls, when the money you have lent is paid back, it has more purchasing power. Bonds are good here.Inflation is when the price of goods rises and so money owed to you loses value. Here it is better to own assets like stocks that rise in value with inflation.When interest rates rise, bond prices fall. When interest rates fall bond prices rise.Inflation is the biggest risk to your bonds.The irony of investing is that the more you watch and fiddle with your holdings the less well you are likely to do.During the accumulation phase, celebrate market drops. While you are in the wealth accumulation phase, these are gifts. Each dollar you invest will buy more shares.But remember, you can't time these drops so don't try.During the accumulation phase he recommends putting all your money into a Vanguard Total Stock Market Funds.You can add a total bond fund (if desired) but then you will need to rebalance.When you are in the wealth preservation phase, you will need to add bonds to the fund.You can fine tune the asset allocation (stock and bonds) as desired to your specific needs.You will want to rebalance about one time a year and if the AA gets more than 20% out of line.If you don't want to mess with rebalancing the funds, a target date fund (TDF) is an excellent choice.But try to hold in a tax advantaged account if possible.Factors that can affect your AA decisions.Temperament – your personal ability to handle risk.Flexibility – How willing and able are you to adjust. Spending? Location? Work? Lifestyle?.When you are about 5-10 years from retirement, you should start slowing shifting your AA toward bonds.Vanguard is owned by its shareholders and he recommends using their funds if possible.Anyone using a High Deductible Health Plan should put money into an HSA.Don't use a financial advisor. But if you want to, get an advisor paid by the hour.I can't pick winning stocks, you can't pick winning stocks, but don't feel bad, because most experts can't either. Index and be happy. Buffett and Graham both recommend indexing.If you come into a lump sum of money. The math says to put it into the market right then. The market is up yearly roughly 75% of the time and down 25%. But if from a psychological point of view, you want to Dollar Cost Average, that is ok too. But understand the math is against you.You reach financial independence when you have 25X your annual expenses.The general safe withdraw rate is 4% a year. The range of safe withdraw rates is between 3-7%. But this depends on many different factors.Plan your financial future assuming that Social Security will not be there, and if it is, then enjoy.
## Theory
### A Random Walk Down Wall Street
2 types of analysis.Fundamental analysis or Firm Foundation Theory based on Fisher's DDM.Technical analysis or Castle in the Air or greater fool's theory by Keynes.No one person or institution consistently knows more than the market.Short run changes in stock prices are unpredictable. Therefore, investment advisory services, earnings forecasts, and complicated chart patterns are useless.Greed run amok has been an essential feature of every spectacular boom in history.In their frenzy, market participants ignore firm foundations of value for the thrilling proposition that they can build castles in the air.Castle in the air theory can explain speculative binges after they occur, trying to outguess the reactions of a fickle crowd is a most dangerous game. Unstainable prices can persist for years but they eventually come back down.Sir Isaac Newton "I can calculate the motions of heavenly bodies, but not the madness of people."Styles and fashions in investors evaluations of securities can and often do play a critical role in the pricing of securities. The stock market at times conforms well to the castle in the air theory, for this reason, it can be very dangerous.Do not purchase today's hot new issue. Most IPO's are bad for retail investors. But good for underwriters.Most bubbles have been associated with some new technology or with some new business opportunity.Bubbles are a positive feedback loop. A bubble starts when a group of stocks begin to rise. The updraft encourages more people to buy, which causes more TV/Print coverage, which causes more people to buy, which creates big profits for early investors. The successful investors talk about how easy it is to get rich, which causes more people to buy. The whole idea is a kind of Ponzi scheme needing more and more greater fools to buy. But eventually they run out of fools and the stock plummets.Technical analyst looks at charts and patterns (They don't exist). They believe the market is 10% logical and 90% psychological and attempt to beat the crowd with their picks. Does not work.Fundamental analyst believe that the market is 90% logical and 10% psychological. Caring little for patterns and past price movements. Fundamentalists seek to determine a stocks proper value. Value applies to assets, growth rates, earnings and dividends, interest rate, and risks. They believe that the company's price will eventually reflect its real worth.God Almighty does not know the proper P/E multiple for a common stock.The history of stock price movement contains no useful information that will enable an investor to consistently to outperform a buy and hold strategy.Dogs of the Dow. This short-term strategy actually did work for some time but currently doesn't. You bought the lowest 10 stocks of the Dow Jones that year based on low P/E and high Dividend Yield. Once everyone started using the strategy, it stopped working.Technical analysis strategies are usually amusing, often comforting, but of no real value.The past history of stock prices cannot be used to predict the future in any meaningful way.Technical analysis enriches people marketing them, not investors.The idea is simple, if past prices contain little to no useful information for the prediction of future prices, there is no point in following any technical trading rule for the timing of purchases or sales. A simple policy of buying and holding will be at least as good as any technical procedure. Also, buying and selling short term generate taxable events, brokerage charges, and spreads that decrease returns.Security analysts are incorrect much of the time. 5 factors why.Random events."Creative accounting" by the business.Errors made by analysts themselves.Loss of the best analysts to other higher paying jobs.Conflicts of interest.Analysts' recommendations are tainted by very profitable investment banking relationships.Brad Barber studied the performance of the "strong buy" recommendations and found the results were terrible.Stock recommendations of firms without investment banking relationships were much better according to a study by Cornell.Investors have done no better with the average mutual fund than they could have done by purchasing and holding a broad stock index.Simply buying and holding the stocks in a broad market index is a strategy that is very hard for the professional money manager to beat.The evidence in favor of indexing grows stronger over time. Indexing holds true for large cap, us small cap, international, emerging markets, bonds. Over 2/3 of the active managers were outperformed by their index over 5-year periods. The results also repeat over 10 or 20-year periods.Index investing is SMART investing.Benjamin Graham, heralded as the father of fundamental security analysis came to the conclusion that security analysis could no longer be counted on to produce superior investment returns. "I am no longer an advocate of elaborate techniques of security analysis in order to find superior value opportunities. Today, I doubt whether such extensive efforts will generate sufficiently superior selections to justify the cost…. I am on the side of the "efficient market school of thought."Efficient-market hypothesis explains why a random walk is possible. It holds that the stock market is so good at adjusting to new information that no one can predict its future course in a superior manner. Because of the action of pros, the prices of stocks quickly reflect all available information.One of the best documented propositions in the study of finance is that, on average, investors have received higher rates of return for bearing greater risk.Diversification can reduce but not eliminate portfolio risks.Capital asset pricing model says that there is no premium for bearing risks that can be diversified away. Thus, to get a higher average long run rate of return, you need increase the risk level of the portfolio that cannot be diversified away.Systemic Risk AKA "Market Risk" – arises from the basic variability of stock prices in general and the tendency for all stocks to go along with the general market, at least to some extent. Cannot be eliminated by diversification.Unsystematic Risk – results from factors peculiar to that specific company. IE – strikes, new products, management, etc. This can be eliminated through adequate diversification. With as few as 60 stocks.Beta – relative volatility or sensitivity to market moves.Numerical description of systemic risk.It is a comparison between the movements of an individual stock or portfolio and the movements of the market as a whole.IE – the total stock market has a Beta of 1. If a stock has a Beta of 2. It will move up or down 2x as much as the total market. +-10% change in the total market would mean a +-20% change for the stock. Beta of 0.5 would be +-5%.Investors will not be paid for bearing risks that can be diversified away. The is the logic behind the capital asset pricing model.As the systemic risk (Beta) of an individual portfolio increases, so does the return an investor can expect.Beta isn't the end all be all though. Fama and French did a study in 1992 that discovered that there was no relationship between returns for portfolios and their beta measures. It is not a useful single measure to capture the relationship between risk and return.It appears that the only way to obtain higher long-run investment returns is to accept greater risks.Unfortunately, a perfect risk measure doesn't exist. Beta and rate of return has not corresponded to the relationship predicted in theory. Beta can also change.Behavioral Finance.Investors are generally overconfident in their ability and convinced they can beat the market. A study showed that the more a person traded, the worse they did. Males traded more than females and did worse. Over optimism in forecasting the growth of existing companies could be one reason growth stocks tend to underperform value stocks.Biased Judgments – Investors tend to think they can control their investment results even though they can't.Herding – research shows that groups tend to make better decisions than individuals. But this can cause "group think" where individuals will reinforce one another into believing that some incorrect view is the correct one.Loss aversion – A study concluded that losses were 2 ½ times as undesirable as equivalent gain were desirable.Pride and Regret – Investors find it very difficult to admit that they have made a bad stock market decision. But are quite proud to tell of their gains. Many investors therefore will hold onto losing positions hoping it recovers.The problem with trying to "trade" with these ideas is that the market can remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent.What are the lessons for the individual investor on behavioral finance?.In investing, we are often our own worst enemy.Avoid herd behavior. Any investment that has become a topic of widespread conversation is likely to be especially hazardous. But the same behavior leads investors to throw in the towel when pessimism is rampant – a good time to buy.Avoid overtrading – this incurs more taxes and trading costs which decrease returns.Be wary of new issues or IPO's.Stay cool to Hot Tips.Never buy anything from someone who is out of breath.Distrust foolproof schemes.High multiple growth stocks are difficult to invest in because of the danger is forecasting future earnings growth. If the growth fails to materialize, investors get hit with an earning decrease and P/E multiple decrease, a double whammy.Smart Beta – Maybe possible to gain excess returns by using a variety of passive investment strategies that involve no more risk than would be assumed by investing in a low-cost Total Stock Market index fund. Very difficult to do and their record has been suspect.There is overwhelming evidence to support small cap beating large and value beating growth stocks.The record of "Smart Beta" funds beating the market has been spotty. Especially the low volatility and momentum strategies have done very poor vs their index. The value and small tilt have done better. But be aware you are taking extra risk to get these extra returns. You can take a chance that some risk factor(tilt) will generate excess returns in the future, if the core of your portfolio consists of capitalization weighted broad based index funds.Smart beta portfolios will not protect you from market bubbles.Exercise 1 - The most important driver in the growth of your assets is how much you save and saving requires discipline. The only reliable way to build up a nest egg is slowly and steadily. Begin a regular savings program and stick with it. Start now.Exercise 2 – Remember Murphy's Law, what can go wrong will go wrong. Keep a cash reserve of at least 3 months. Get a good term life policy. And avoid variable annuities.Exercise 3 – Try to keep pace with inflation on your cash reserve yield. This may include MMF, CD's, Internet Banks, T-Bills or tax exempt MMF.Exercise 4 – Avoid the tax man. Save as much as you can through your tax-sheltered accounts.Exercise 5 – Have clear goals. Decide what degree of risk you are willing to take.Exercise 6 – Buy a house. Real estate is a great inflation hedge. REIT's are a good choice to own commercial real estate.Exercise 7 – Invest in Bonds.Exercise 8 – Gold can have a place in your portfolio (5%). It is a good diversifier and is an excellent inflation hedge. Don't invest in diamonds or Collectibles. Buy diamonds and collectibles because you like them. Not as an investment. Do NOT invest in commodities futures contracts. You will get burned. Stay away from hedge funds, private equity, and venture capital funds. They are great for the managers, not for you.Exercise 9 – Remember the costs of investing. Keep them low.Exercise 10 – Diversify your investments. It reduces risk.Long-Run equity return = Initial dividend yield + growth rate. This has historically been about 5% and 5% for a total of 10%.Even if a company pays a small dividend today and retains most or all of its earnings to reinvest in the business, the investor assumes that such reinvestment will lead to a more rapidly growing stream of dividends in the future or more stock repurchases.In the short run, change in valuations can have a major role in determining returns. IE – P/E's and Dividend yields.P/E have varied widely. During the early 2000's with high optimism, the P/E's were about 30. During 1982 stocks sold at only a P/E of 8.P/E go up with lower interest rates and go down with higher interest rates because now equities have to compete with bonds.Long - Run returns on bonds are easy if you hold the bond to maturity. The yield that the bond investor receives is the yield to maturity of the bond at the time of purchase.But if bonds are not held to maturity, then changes in interest rates take effect. Higher interest rates lower bond prices and the opposite is true.In principle, common stocks should be an inflation hedge.In general, investors have earned a higher rate of return from the stock market when P/E was low and low rates of return when stocks were purchased at high P/E.90% of return is determined by asset class chosen and percent. Less than 10% is determined by individual stock selection or manager selection.History shows that risk and return are related.Risks of investing in stock and bonds depends on length of time. Longer periods have lower variation in return.DCA can be useful.Rebalancing can reduce risk.You must understand your attitude and your capacity toward risk.The longer the time period over which you can hold on to your investments, the greater should be the share of common stocks in your portfolio.Rebalancing yearly reduced volatility and increased returns.If you job is in an area, you should probably not invest in that area too. Because if something bad happened, you would have more trouble. IE – GM employee owns lots of GM stock. If GM does bad, you would lose your job and your investment.Mutual Funds are better for DCA your money into the market. ETF's are better for "lump sum" investing.Don't day trade ETF's.If you want to buy individual stocks, Index the core portfolio and then take active bets with extra funds. That way if you miss, it won't prove fatal.3 rules for successful stock selection.Confine purchases to companies that appear able to sustain above-average earnings growth for at least 5 years.Never pay more for a stock than can reasonably be justified by a firm foundation of value.P/E is a good place to start.Beware of stocks with high P/E's.Trade as little as possible.There is no way to beat the market consistently by purchasing the mutual funds that have performed best in the past.Often, one year's hot performers are next year's dogs.Morningstar rating system do not guarantee superior results.
### Stocks for the Long Run
Real stock returns in the 19th century do not differ appreciably from the real returns in the 20th century.Stocks fluctuate both below and above the trendline but eventually return to the trend. AKA mean reversion. This means that periods of above average returns tend to be followed by periods of below average returns and vice versa.In the short run, stock returns are very volatile driven by changes in earnings, interest rates, risk, uncertainty and psychological factors.Correlation among the world's stock markets has increased in recent years as the world has become more global.Commodities, such as oil, correlation has increased with the stock market in recent times too.The only equity class whose correlation has not been impacted by the financial crisis is gold.Fluctuations in global demand will produce a positive correlation with stocks and commodities. Fluctuations in supply, however, will induce a negative correlation. So, commodities correlation to stocks will depend on these factors.Gold protects investors against inflation, it does little else, the precious metal will likely exert a drag on the return of a long-term portfolio.The stock market has real annualized returns of 6.7% from 1802-1870, 6.6% from 1871-1925, and 6.4% from 1926-2012. This is remarkable constancy.As stable as the long-term returns for equities have been, the same cannot be said of fixed-income investments. Real returns on treasures were 5.1% in the early 19th century to a bare 0.6% since 1926, only slightly above inflation.Real return on bonds have shown a similar but more moderate decline as fixed-income. 4.8% in the first period to 3.7% in the 2nd period and now only 2.6% in the current period.The excess return of stocks over bonds is referred to as the equity risk premium.Subtracting stock and bond returns from equity shows that the premium has averaged 3% against bonds and 3.9% over treasury bills over the last 200 years.19 countries were analyzed from 1900-2012 and it was determined that the US experience of equites outperforming bonds and bills has been mirrored in all countries examined. Every country achieved equity performance that was better than bonds.While the US and UK have performed well, that is no indication that they are out of line with other countries. Therefore, studies on the US market results have relevance to all investors in all countries.Swings in investor sentiment from political or economic crisis can throw stocks off their long-term path, but the fundamental forces producing economic growth have always enabled equities to regain their long-term trend.Correlations between asset classes can and do change over time.During 20 year holding periods, stock have never fallen below inflation. Bond and treasury bills have lagged by as much as 3% below inflation.The worst 30-year timeframe since 1802 stocks beat inflation by 2.6%.As the holding period increases, the odds that stocks will beat bonds or bills increase drastically.On any given 2-year cycle, there is a 33% chance bonds or bills will beat stocks.Under a paper money standard, bad economic times are more likely to be associated with inflation, not deflation like the 1930's. Under these circumstances, stock and bond prices tend to be more correlated. Thereby reducing the diversifying qualities of government bonds.Because of this it is unlikely that bonds will remain a good long-term diversifier, especially if inflation looms once again.In contrast to fixed income investments, both capital gains and dividends are treated favorably by the U.S. tax code. Historically stocks hold an after-tax advantage over bonds.Real returns (post tax) since 1913 (income tax enacted) have ranged from 6.1%-2.7% on stocks, 2.2% to -0.3% for bonds and bills having a 0.4% to -2.3%.Taxes have the greatest impact on fixed income investments.Since 1871, for someone in the highest tax bracket, short term treasury bills have had a negative real return after tax.The inflation tax hits harder when the holding period is shorter. The more you buy and sell, the more frequently the government can tax the gains, which might not be real after inflation.P/E ratio is the ratio of a stock's price to its earnings. The average P/E is 15 from 1871-2012.Earnings yield is important also. It measures the earnings generated per dollar of stock market value. IE – if the P/E of the market is 15 means the earnings yield is 1/15 or 6.67% which is historically accurate long-term rate of return on stocks. This is not a coincidence. If the P/E went to 20 it would be 1/20 or 5%.But there have been changes in the economy and markets that may rise the average P/E in the future. These changes include a decrease in the cost of investing in indexes, a lower discount rate, and an increase in knowledge about the advantages of equity vs fixed income investing.There are many reasons for a decline in real returns available to investors. Whatever the reasons, such a decline implies that the real return on equity need not be as high as it had historically been to attract investors. The historic equity risk premium was 3-3.5%. If we assume the long-run real rate is somewhere around 2%, then a 3% equity premium will require a 5% real return on stocks, which, gives us an average P/E of 20. 1/20 = 5%.Transaction costs have come down and this has led to a higher P/E ratio than in the past.The equity risk premium also itself may have shrunk. There is considerable truth in the statement that widespread knowledge of the profitability of common stocks, gained from the studies that have been made, tends to diminish the likelihood that correspondingly large profits can be gained from stocks in the future. The competitive bidding for stocks causes prices at the time of purchase to be high.Investors are drawn to firms able to generate high earnings and revenue growth. But empirical data shows this pursuit of growth often leads to subpar returns. IE – IBM vs Exxon 1950-2012. Exxon was a better investment.Financial theory has shown that if capital markets are "efficient" in the sense that known valuation criteria, such as earnings, dividends, cash flows, book values, and other factors are already factored into the security price, investing on the basis of these fundamentals will not improve returns.In an efficient market, the only way investors can consistently earn higher returns is to undertake higher risk, where risk is defined as the correlation of an asset's return with the overall stock market. This was the basis for the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) or Beta.Beta and CAPM was the primary basis for stock returns in the 1970's and 1980's. Unfortunately, beta and CAPM did not prove effective in explaining the differences in returns among individual stocks.Don't use Beta to try to buy stocks, it doesn't work.Fama and French wrote an article that showed there are 2 factors (size and value) that are far more important in determining a stock return that the beta of a stock.Although the historical return on small stocks has outpaced large stocks since 1926, the magnitude of small cap outperformance has waxed and waned unpredictably.The existence of a small-cap premium does not mean they will outperform large stock every year or even every decade. They have lost to large cap for more than a decade before.F+F also determined that value played a role in returns. Stocks with low prices relative to their fundamentals are value stocks. Stocks with high prices relative to their fundamentals are growth stocks.In 1978 Ramaswamy and Litzenberger established a significant correlation between dividend yield and subsequent return. O'Shaughnessy has shown that in the period of 1951-1994, the 50 highest dividend yielding large cap stocks had a return that was 1.7% higher than the market.Basu did some studies in the 1960's that showed that stocks with lower P/E ratios have significantly higher returns than stocks with high P/E ratios, even after accounting for risks.Graham wrote in Security Analysis (1940) that people who habitually pay more than 16x average earnings are likely to lose considerable money in the long run.P/B ratio is a good ratio but there are conceptual problems with using book value as a value criterion. It does not correct for changes in the market value of assets, not does it capitalize R+D expenditures. From 1987-2012 the author determined that book value underperformed either dividend yields or P/E ratios in explaining returns.Historical returns on value stocks have surpassed the returns on growth stocks and this is especially true with smaller cap stocks. As market cap increases, the difference between value and growth becomes smaller.Do not buy IPO's.Growth and Value stocks can and do change designations. For example, technology which is historically a growth industry, could be classified as a value stock if it is out of favor with investors and sells at a low price relative to fundamentals.Historical research shows that investors can achieve higher long-term returns without taking on increased risk by focusing on the factors relating to the valuation of companies.Be aware though that no strategy will outperform the market all the time. You must be patient if you employ these strategies.Globalization of the financial markets is happening right now.There is a negative correlation between economic growth and stock returns. This occurs in both developing and developed markets. Why? Same reason value stocks beat growth stocks. Valuation. The faster growing economics have a higher price.Example – China is the world's fastest growing economy currently, but investors in China have realized poor returns because of overvaluation. Latin America has been a better investment for the same reasons Exxon was a better investment over the last 50 years then IBM.Then why invest in foreign companies. Diversification and reduced risks as foreign stocks are less correlated with US stocks. Sticking to a US only strategy is risky for investors.For investors with long-term horizons, hedging currency risks in foreign stock markets may not be important.But over shorter periods, hedging maybe advisable as bad economic news for a country depresses both its stock market and currency. Investors can avoid the latter by hedging.Inflation and Deflation have characterized history as far back as economists have gathered data. But since 1955, there has never been a single year in which the US consumer price index declined.Why the shift, because instead of Gold having control, now the government does and they always provide liquidity to prevent prices from declining.The market used to react more to fed policy. But investors have become so geared to watching and anticipating Fed policy that the effect of its tightening or easing is already in the market.Stocks have an inflation hedge or an ability to maintain its purchasing power during periods of inflation.Since stocks are claims on the earnings of real assets, assets whose value is intrinsically related to the price of the goods and services they produce, one should expect that their long-term returns will not be harmed by inflation.Stock are not good hedges against inflation in the short term, but no financial asset is. In the long run however, stocks are very good hedges against inflation, while bonds are not.Smith's Common Stocks and Long-Term Investments showed that stocks outperform bonds in times of falling and well as rising prices.Fisher found that in theory, stocks will be an ideal inflation hedge.If inflation rears its head again, investors will do much better in stocks than bonds.Lynch "I'd love to be able to predict markets and anticipate recessions, but since that's impossible, I'm am satisfied to search out profitable companies."The markets and the economy are often out of sync.Samuelson "The stock market has predicted 9 out of the last 5 recessions."If you can predict the business cycle, you can beat a buy and hold strategy. But this is no easy task. You must be able to identify the peaks and valleys BEFORE they occur. A skill very few people possess. Wall street pushes the endeavor not because it is successful (it is often not) but because if you are right, the rewards are so large.From 1802-2012 the USA has experienced 47 recessions, average length of 19 months.Expansions have averaged 34 months. That means on average, we are in a recession 1/3 of the time.However, since WWII, there have been 11 recessions lasting 11 months with expansions lasting an average of 58 months. The economy has been in recession less than 1/6 of the time.Almost without exception, the stock market turns down BEFORE a recession and rises BEFORE economic recovery.If one could predict in advance when a recession will occur, the gains would be substantial. But the record of predicting business cycle turning points is extremely poor.The worst course an investor can take is to follow the prevailing sentiment about economic activity. That will lead investors to buy at high prices when times are good and everyone is optimistic and sell at the low.Since 1885, there have been 145 days where the market moved 5% or more. Only ¼ of those days can be attributed to an event. This confirms the unpredictability of the market and the difficulty in forecasting moves.News moves markets. But the timing of much news is unpredictable, like wars, political developments, and natural disasters.Markets do not directly respond to what is announced, rather, they respond to the difference between what the traders expect to happen and what actually happens. The market already incorporates all the information that was expected.For example – a strong economic report can send stocks down. Why? Because even though the news is good for main street and corporate earnings, it can mean the federal reserve will raise interest rates, which raises the discount rate at which these future profits are discounted.The opposite can also happen. A weak report can send stocks higher as interest rates decline.A lower than expected inflation report lowers interest rates and boosts bond and stock prices. Inflation worse than expected raises interest rates and depress stock and bond prices.Bonds are bad during inflation as they are fixed income investments whose cash flows are not adjusted for inflation.It is also bad for the stock market. Stocks have proved to be poor hedges against inflation in the short run. But are great in the long run.Although fascinating to observe and understand a market's reaction, investing on the basis of data releases (CPI, unemployment, etc.) is a tricky game and best left to speculators. Most investors will do well to watch from the sidelines and stick to a long-term investment strategy.From 1971-2012, the average U.S. equity active mutual fund returned 1% below the Wilshire 5000 index and 0.88% below the S&P 500 index.Very few active managed mutual funds beat the index and the odds of you picking on early are low. Good money managers are extremely difficult to identify as luck plays a role in all successful investment outcomes.The generally poor performance of active mutual funds is not because the fund managers pick losing stocks. It is because of the fees and trading costs.Contrary to their oft articulated goal of outperforming the market averages, investment managers are not beating the market; the market is beating them.Investing $1000 with a compound return of 11% will accumulate 23,000 in 30 years. A 1% fee will reduce this number by 1/3. A 3% fee will reduce it to just over 10,000. The fees add up.In the 1990's passive investing took off. Indexing has low fees. Most investors are better off in a capitalization weighted index fund.Indexing also has a problem in that when a company is announced it will be added to an index, the price usually goes up forcing the index to have to pay inflated prices.Most major index are capitalization weighted meaning that each firm in the index is weighted by market value.Structuring a portfolio.Buy and Hold a diversified portfolio of stocks.Forgo any forecasting ability.Don't let emotions get in your way.Keep transaction costs low.Keep your expectations in line with history. 6-7% real return with a 15 P/E.Stock returns are more stable over the long run. They protect against inflation.Based on the above, you should keep an overwhelming portion in equities.Invest the largest portion in low cost index funds.Invest at least 1/3 of your portfolio in international stocks.Stocks in high growth countries often become overpriced (China) and yield poor returns for investors. Do not overweight any growth countries who have a P/E above 20.Value stocks with a lower P/E ratio and higher dividend yields have superior returns and lower risk than growth stocks. Tilt your portfolio toward value.Establish firm rules to keep your portfolio on track. The temptation to buy when everyone else is bullish and sell when everyone else is bearish are hard to resist.Most investors who trade frequently have poor returns.
### Winning the Loser's Game
Investment managers are not beating the market, the market is beating them.Over 1 year, 70% of professionals underperform their benchmarks.Over 10 years, 80%.Over 15 years, 90%.Yes, some professional money managers will beat the market in any given year. But most will not over the long term and there is no reliable way to figure out who would be in that 10% that outperforms ahead of time.Individuals investing on their own do even worse and individuals who day trade do the worst of all on average.In the 1960's, when active investing was a winner's game, individuals did 90% of the trading and institutions did 10%.Professionals could beat the amateurs easily.Professional money managers now do 95% of the trading on wall street now.They are so good as a group that they make it nearly impossible for any one of them to outperform the market. They don't make enough errors for their peers to exploit.Although figuring out the optimal investment policy can be difficult, the hardest part of investing is staying committed to a sound investment policy.Being rational in an emotional environment is not easy.Develop your plan and stick with it.Active investing is, at the margin, always a negative sum game.Just because a manger had success in the past, does not mean he will have success in the future.To be a long-term winner, set realistic goals and develop sensible investment polies that will achieve those objectives and then have the discipline and fortitude require to implement those policy's.The only way active investment managers can beat the market, after adjusting for market risk, is to discover and exploit other active investors mistakes and overcome the high costs of fees.Active investors have 3 ways of doing this.Timing.Selecting specific stocks or groups of stocks.Making timely changes in overall portfolio structure or strategy.Market timing is a truly wicked idea, don't try it.The only way to beat the market is to beat the professionals who, as a group, are the market. The problem isn't the research isn't done well. It is that the research is done well by so many.Although the market isn't perfectly efficient, its not longer worth the real costs of trying to beat it. If you can't beat them, join them and buy index funds.Stock markets are different than they were 60 years ago (1960's).Indexing outperforms active investing.Index investing is low cost.The daily weather is comparably different than the climate. Weather is about the short run. Climate is about the long run. This applies to finance too. Ignore the short term and focus on the long term.Gravity is a powerful force. A powerful force in finance is regression to the mean. This is the tendency of a series of events to become more normal or average over time.As Example – Very hot or very cold days tend to be followed by less hot or cold days.The same "back toward normal" occurs with P/E multiples.Stocks with very high or low P/E ratios tend to move back toward normal. Causing a double whammy!.The power of regression to the mean is valuable. Don't get caught up in the hype either positive or negative as an investor.Investing is not supposed to be fun or exciting.Stick to your plan as an investor and ignore the noise is the secret to long term success.Indexing has lower fees, lower taxes and lower operating expenses.Using an index fund allows the investors to keep pace with the market virtually without effort.Warren Buffett recommends most investors consider indexing.Indexing advantage.Less Taxes.Less Fees.Less Costs.More peace of mind.Study after study shows index investing works.Index investing "unfair" advantages.Higher rates of return.Lower management fees and expenses.Lower taxes.Lower transaction costs.Lower portfolio turnover.Convenience.The case for indexing increases as the period lengthens.To minimize risk relative to return or to maximize return relative to risk, investors should consider at least diversifying internationally.50/50 US/Foreign is a good starting point.Investors who decide to concentrate their investments in their home country are making an implicit decision to emphasize that one country over others. Curiously, most investors do just that. British investors favor UK, Canadian investors favor Canada, Japanese investors favor Japan, American investors prefer USA.The more turnover in a portfolio, the more taxes and the lower accumulated returns.Investors essential truth "We have met the enemy and he is us."Behavioral Economics.We fail to appreciate the power of regression to the mean.We ignore the normal pattern of experience.We believe in "hot hands".We overreact to first impressions and then anchor to those views.We suffer from illusion of control.We rely on expert opinions and are overconfident in those opinions.We overestimate out own skill and knowledge.We respond to the "halo effect" of a recommendation of someone we admire, like a celebrity or athlete.We are overly impressed by short term results.We are "confirmation biased" looking for and then overweighting the data that supports our conclusion.We anchor too much to our initial opinion.We confuse familiarity with knowledge and understanding.We overreact to both good and bad news.We think we know more relative to what others know than we really do.Investors risks to avoid.Trying too hard and taking too much risk.Not trying hard enough, usually by having too much cash or money market accounts.Being Impatient.Changing mutual funds too much (holding less than 10 years).Borrowing too much.3 out of 4 fortunes that are lost got lost because borrowed money was used.Being naively optimistic.Being proud.We overestimate our own ability.Being emotional.We are happy when our stocks go up and sad when they go down. And the feelings are stronger the faster the change in prices.Given enough time, investments that might otherwise seem unattractive become highly desirable, and vice versa.The longer the time period over which an investment is held, the closer the actual returns in a portfolio will come to the expected average.If a time period is abundantly long, a wise investor can commit without great anxiety to investments that in the short run would appear too risky.The single most important dimension of your investment policy is the asset mix. Specifically, your equity and fixed income. Analysis shows repeatedly that the tradeoff between risk and reward is driven by one key factor: time.If the market has been going up, investors, who curiously usually evaluate future prospects by looking into rearview mirror, will assume some further upward momentum.And if the market has been going down, investors will assume further downward momentum.The wise investor will adjust for this notorious human tendency.History of return on investments show 3 key points.Common stocks have average returns that are higher than bonds. Bonds have higher returns than short term money market instruments.The fluctuations of actual returns on common stocks exceed the fluctuations on bonds, which in turn exceed the fluctuations on short term instruments.The magnitude of fluctuations in rate of return increases as the measurement period is shortened and decreases as it is lengthened.This means rates of return appear more normal over longer periods of time.Develop an investment policy for yourself and then follow it.Too often investment policy is too vague and is left to be resolved in haste when distressing market conditions are present. This is when it is too easy to make the wrong decision at the wrong time for the wrong reasons.The best shield against the disruption of the markets short term provocations is understanding and knowledge.Put your investment policy in writing so you will follow it when times are bad.When the market drops, we stop buying and, in fact, usually start selling. And when the market rises, we buy more and more enthusiastically.We are wrong when we feel good about stocks having gone up and we are wrong when we feel bad about stocks having gone down.A knowledge of yourself and history prevents panic during these times.Every investor can be a winner.Ignore the "beat the market" hype.Each investor must decide what are investment policies that they can and will stay with through thick and thin over the long term.If your investment policy is not determined through carefully developed understanding, it will be determined by improvisation.The markets specialty of short-term focus is the mortal enemy of long-term investment success.Over very long periods, the average return obtained by most actively managed mutual funds must be expected to be close to the market average minus 1.5% for various costs.The average mutual fund investor actually gets a return that is significantly below the average return that they invest in.Why? Frequent trading in and out of funds and chasing performance instead of staying the course.Index investing advantages.Anyone trying to beat the market faces an increasingly formidable challenge.Operating costs are far lower than active investments.Taxes are lower due to decreased turnover.Fees are much lower.Easier to stay on plan.More time for other activities.Investment professionals daily trading volume by decade.10% in the 1960's to over 90% currently.This is why it is so difficult for active managers to beat the market.Understanding the outlook for the near term is easy as J.P Morgan said, "It will fluctuate."One way to be realistic about future returns is to assume that future range of P/E multiples and corporate profits will be within their historical upper and lower limits and will appear with frequency at values close to the long-term average.Investors almost always project recent past market and economic behavior out into the future, somehow expecting more of the same to continue.Math example – If dividends are at 1.5% and corporate earnings are growing at 4.5% (Historical Average), then a composite of 6% return is reasonable. This is the fundamental rate of return the investor can expect from the market.Then you add or subtract the changes in P/E over that time frame. The average P/E in recent decades has been about 15.5. This is the speculative return component.Predicting the market roughly is not hard, but predicting it accurately is impossible.Predicting where the market will be in the long run is not hard, but even estimating how it will move in the next few months is impossible and pointless.Investing must always begin with savings. No savings means no investing.Having a defensive saving reserve is a must. Just like a fire extinguisher.10 Commandments for individual investors.Save.If you must "play" in the market, do it will a small portion of your money.Don't do anything in investing primarily for tax reasons.Don't think of your home as an investment.Don't do commodities.Don't get confused by stockbrokers and salespeople.Don't invest in novel or unusual kinds of investments.Don't invest in bonds just because you heard they are safe. Bond prices fluctuate and are a very poor defense against the major risk of long-term investing: inflation.Write out your long-term goals and have an investment plan in place.Distrust your feelings.Your responsibility is to decide on your long-term investment objective and determine a reasoned and realistic set of investment policies that can achieve your objectives.The individual investor does not have to beat the market to be successful.Warren Buffett "Investing is simple, but it's not easy."The real challenge is to commit to the discipline of long-term investing and avoid reacting to the short-term distractions.Winning the loser's game of beating the market is easy: DO NOT TRY IT!!.Index your investments.The real purpose of investment management is not to beat the market; it is to do what is right for each particular investor who accepts the responsibility of defining their true and realistic investment objectives, developing sensible long-term policies, and staying with them.
## Strategies
There are a number of different ways to approach stock investing, but nearly all of them fall under one of three basic styles: value investing, growth investing, or index investing. These stock investment strategies follow the mindset of an investor and the strategy they utilize to invest is affected by a number of factors, such as the investor’s financial situation, investing goals, and risk tolerance.
### Value Investing Basics
The strategy of value investing, in simple terms, means buying stocks of companies that the marketplace has undervalued. The goal is not to invest in no-name companies that haven’t been recognized for their potential – that falls more in the venue of speculative or penny stock investing. Value investors typically buy into strong companies that are trading at low prices that an investor believes don’t reflect the company’s true value. Value investing is all about getting the best deal, similar to getting a great discount on a designer brand. When we say that a stock is undervalued, we mean that an analysis of their financial statements indicates that the price the stock is trading at is lower than it should be, based on the company’s intrinsic value. This might be indicated by things such as a low price-to-book ratio (a financial ratio favored by value investors) and a high dividend yield, which represents the amount in dividends a company pays out each year relative to the price of each share. The marketplace is not always correct in its valuations and thus stocks often simply trade for less than their true worth, at least for a period of time. If you pursue a value investing strategy, the goal is to seek out these undervalued stocks and scoop them up at a favorable price.
### Value Investing Long-Term
The value investing strategy is pretty straightforward, but practicing this method is more involved than you might think, especially when you’re using it as a long-term strategy. It’s important to avoid the temptation to try to make fast cash based on flighty market trends. A value investing strategy is based on buying into strong companies that will maintain their success and that will eventually have their intrinsic worth recognized by the markets. Warren Buffet, one of the greatest and most prolific value investors of the century, famously said, “In the short term, the market is a popularity contest. In the long term, the market is a weighing machine.” Buffet bases his stock choices on the true potential and stability of a company, looking at the whole of each company instead of simply looking at an undervalued price tag that the market has assigned individual shares of the company’s stock. However, he does still prefer to buy stocks he perceives as “on sale”.
### Value investing - The Basics of Growth Stock Investment Strategies 
For decades, growth investing has been held as the yin to value investing’s yang. While growth investing is, in the most basic terms, the so-called “opposite” of value investing, many value investors also employ a growth investing mindset when settling on stocks. Growth investing is very similar, in the long-term, to value stock investing strategies. Basically, if you’re investing in stocks based on the intrinsic value of a company and its potential to grow in the future, you’re using a growth investing strategy. Growth investors are distinguished from strictly value investors by their focus on young companies that have shown their potential for significant, above average growth. Growth investors look at companies that have repeatedly shown indications of growth and substantial or rapid increases in business and profit. The general theory behind growth investing is that the growth in earnings or revenue a company generates will then be reflected by an increase in share prices. Differing from value investors, growth investors may often buy stocks priced at or higher than a company’s current intrinsic worth, based on the belief that a continued high growth rate will eventually boost the company’s intrinsic value to a substantially higher level, well above the current share price of the stock. Favorite financial metrics used by growth investors include earnings per share (EPS), profit margin, and return on equity (ROE).
### A Fusion of Value and Growth
In truth, if you’re considering a long-term approach to investing, a fusion of value and growth investing, as Buffet so effectively employs, may be worth your consideration. There are good reasons to back up taking these stock investment strategies. Historically speaking, value stocks are usually the stocks of companies in cyclical industries, which are largely made up of businesses producing goods and services that people use their discretionary income on. The airline industry is a good example; people fly more when the business cycle is on an uptrend and fly less when it swings downward because they have more and less discretionary income, respectively. Because of seasonality, value stocks typically perform well in the market during times of economic recovery and prosperity, but they are likely to fall behind when a bull market is sustained for a long period of time. Growth stocks typically perform better when interest rates drop and companies’ earnings take off. They are also typically the stocks that continue to rise even in the late stages of a long-term bull market. On the other hand, these are usually the first stocks to take a beating when the economy slows down. A fusion of growth and value investing offers you the opportunity to enjoy higher returns on your investment while reducing a substantial amount of your risk. Theoretically, if you employ both a value investing strategy for buying some stocks while using a growth investing strategy for buying other stocks, you can generate optimal earnings during virtually any economic cycle, and any fluctuations in returns will be more likely to balance out in your favor over time.
### Passive Index Investing
Index investing is a much more passive form of investing when compared to that of either value or growth investing. Consequently, it involves far less work and strategizing on the part of the investor. Index investing diversifies an investor’s money widely among various types of equities, hoping to mirror the same returns as the overall stock market. One of the main attractions of index investing is that many studies have shown that few strategies of picking individual stocks outperform index investing over the long term. An index investing strategy is usually followed by investing in mutual funds or exchange-traded funds that are designed to reflect the performance of a major stock index such as the S&P 500 or the FTSE 100.
### The Bottom Line – Finding Your Own Way 
Each investor has to discover their own personal stock investment strategies that best suit their individual wants or needs, as well as their investment “personality”. You may find that combining the three approaches discussed here is what works best for you. The investing strategy or strategies you employ will often change during the course of your life as your financial situation and goals shift. Don’t be afraid to shake things up a bit and diversify the ways in which you invest, but strive to always maintain a firm grasp on what your investment approach entails and how it will likely affect your portfolio and your finances.