### Value investing - The Basics of Growth Stock Investment Strategies 
For decades, growth investing has been held as the yin to value investing’s yang. While growth investing is, in the most basic terms, the so-called “opposite” of value investing, many value investors also employ a growth investing mindset when settling on stocks. Growth investing is very similar, in the long-term, to value stock investing strategies. Basically, if you’re investing in stocks based on the intrinsic value of a company and its potential to grow in the future, you’re using a growth investing strategy. Growth investors are distinguished from strictly value investors by their focus on young companies that have shown their potential for significant, above average growth. Growth investors look at companies that have repeatedly shown indications of growth and substantial or rapid increases in business and profit. The general theory behind growth investing is that the growth in earnings or revenue a company generates will then be reflected by an increase in share prices. Differing from value investors, growth investors may often buy stocks priced at or higher than a company’s current intrinsic worth, based on the belief that a continued high growth rate will eventually boost the company’s intrinsic value to a substantially higher level, well above the current share price of the stock. Favorite financial metrics used by growth investors include earnings per share (EPS), profit margin, and return on equity (ROE).
### A Fusion of Value and Growth
In truth, if you’re considering a long-term approach to investing, a fusion of value and growth investing, as Buffet so effectively employs, may be worth your consideration. There are good reasons to back up taking these stock investment strategies. Historically speaking, value stocks are usually the stocks of companies in cyclical industries, which are largely made up of businesses producing goods and services that people use their discretionary income on. The airline industry is a good example; people fly more when the business cycle is on an uptrend and fly less when it swings downward because they have more and less discretionary income, respectively. Because of seasonality, value stocks typically perform well in the market during times of economic recovery and prosperity, but they are likely to fall behind when a bull market is sustained for a long period of time. Growth stocks typically perform better when interest rates drop and companies’ earnings take off. They are also typically the stocks that continue to rise even in the late stages of a long-term bull market. On the other hand, these are usually the first stocks to take a beating when the economy slows down. A fusion of growth and value investing offers you the opportunity to enjoy higher returns on your investment while reducing a substantial amount of your risk. Theoretically, if you employ both a value investing strategy for buying some stocks while using a growth investing strategy for buying other stocks, you can generate optimal earnings during virtually any economic cycle, and any fluctuations in returns will be more likely to balance out in your favor over time.