### Simple Path to Wealth
Money is the single most powerful tool we have for navigating this complex world we have created, understanding it is critical. If you choose to master it, money becomes a wonderful servant. If you don't, it will surely master you.Complex investments exist only to profit those who create and sell them.Avoid fiscally irresponsible people and don't marry one.Spend less than you earn, invest the difference and avoid debt.Money can buy many things, but nothing more valuable than your freedom.Being independently wealthy is every bit as much about limiting needs as it is about how much money you have.It has nothing to do with how much you earn.High income people go broke.Low-income people gain financial independence.Money can buy many things, none of which is more important than your financial independence.Avoid investment advisors.Sound investing isn't complicated.Try to save 50% of your income.Save a portion of every dollar you earn.If you intend to achieve financial freedom, you are going to have to think differently. It starts with recognizing that debt should not be considered normal.No one can predict when drops in the market will happen.Financial independence is about having options (Fuck You Money!!).Avoid debt at all costs.Those who live paycheck to paycheck are slaves.Many people never learn HOW to think about money. It isn't about buying stuff.Remember the lost "Opportunity Costs" of things we buy.You can't time the market, so don't even try.If you could time the market, you would be better than Warren Buffett.Market crashes are to be expected.Toughen up, learn to ignore the noise and ride out the storms.Why most people lose money in the market.They think they can time it – they can't.The majority of investors get worse returns than the funds they pick. Why? Bad timing.They believe they can pick individual stocks – they can't.They believe they can pick the right mutual fund managers – they can't.82+% of funds fail to outperform the index.They watch CNBC and worry about the day-to-day instead of worrying about long term.Never buy stocks on margin.Governments love a little inflation. They can add a little money to the system, keep the economy going and not have to raise taxes or cut spending to do it. That is why it is called the "Hidden Tax" because it erodes the buying power of our currency. It also allows debts (like governments) to pay back their creditors with "cheaper dollars".Stocks are a good inflation hedge in the long term.There is no risk-free investment. Even cash under your mattress has inflation risk.2 stages in life – not necessarily tied to your age.Wealth Accumulation – working, saving and adding money to investments.Wealth Preservation – earned income slows or stops. Your investments are now left to grow and/or provide income for you.Simple is good, Simple is easier, Simple is more profitable.Be a long-term investor.Asset Allocation Rule of Thumb.100 – age in stocks.120 – age in stocks if you want to be more aggressive.3 funds needed to build a portfolio.Vanguard Total Stock Market Index (VTSAX).Vanguard Total Bond Market Index (VBTLX).Vanguard Total International Stock Market Index (VTIAX)*.Cash or Money Market Fund (Emergency Fund).Stocks are the wealth builder and inflation hedge; bonds are the deflation hedge and you have cash for emergencies.Low cost, simple, and effective.* (If Desired) He doesn't personally see the need for international funds but doesn't strongly oppose owning them either.The other fund option is a Vanguard (or equivalent fund family) Target Date Fund (TDF). They are likely to be found in 401k options. They are an excellent choice.Indexing is good because the odds of selecting stocks that outperform (although not impossible) are vanishingly small, better results will be achieved by buying the stocks in the index.Many people still don't like to index… why?.It is difficult for smart people to accept that they can't outperform the index.It means you are accepting the market "average" return.The financial media is full of stores of people who outperformed the index for a few years.Over periods of 15-30 years though, 82-99% of the indexes will win.People underestimate the fees they pay to managers.People want exciting, quick results and bragging rights. Buying an index and holding long term isn't exciting. Get your excitement someplace else.There is a huge business selling advise and doing trades to people who can be persuaded to believe they can outperform.Indexing is easier, simpler and more effective at building wealth than alternatives.Bonds are our deflation hedge; stocks are our inflation hedge.Bonds also tend to be less volatile than stocks and smooth out the road.Difference between stocks and bonds.Stocks – you are buying ownership in the company.Bonds – you are loaning money to the company or government.Deflation is when the price of stuff falls, when the money you have lent is paid back, it has more purchasing power. Bonds are good here.Inflation is when the price of goods rises and so money owed to you loses value. Here it is better to own assets like stocks that rise in value with inflation.When interest rates rise, bond prices fall. When interest rates fall bond prices rise.Inflation is the biggest risk to your bonds.The irony of investing is that the more you watch and fiddle with your holdings the less well you are likely to do.During the accumulation phase, celebrate market drops. While you are in the wealth accumulation phase, these are gifts. Each dollar you invest will buy more shares.But remember, you can't time these drops so don't try.During the accumulation phase he recommends putting all your money into a Vanguard Total Stock Market Funds.You can add a total bond fund (if desired) but then you will need to rebalance.When you are in the wealth preservation phase, you will need to add bonds to the fund.You can fine tune the asset allocation (stock and bonds) as desired to your specific needs.You will want to rebalance about one time a year and if the AA gets more than 20% out of line.If you don't want to mess with rebalancing the funds, a target date fund (TDF) is an excellent choice.But try to hold in a tax advantaged account if possible.Factors that can affect your AA decisions.Temperament – your personal ability to handle risk.Flexibility – How willing and able are you to adjust. Spending? Location? Work? Lifestyle?.When you are about 5-10 years from retirement, you should start slowing shifting your AA toward bonds.Vanguard is owned by its shareholders and he recommends using their funds if possible.Anyone using a High Deductible Health Plan should put money into an HSA.Don't use a financial advisor. But if you want to, get an advisor paid by the hour.I can't pick winning stocks, you can't pick winning stocks, but don't feel bad, because most experts can't either. Index and be happy. Buffett and Graham both recommend indexing.If you come into a lump sum of money. The math says to put it into the market right then. The market is up yearly roughly 75% of the time and down 25%. But if from a psychological point of view, you want to Dollar Cost Average, that is ok too. But understand the math is against you.You reach financial independence when you have 25X your annual expenses.The general safe withdraw rate is 4% a year. The range of safe withdraw rates is between 3-7%. But this depends on many different factors.Plan your financial future assuming that Social Security will not be there, and if it is, then enjoy.