### Value Investing Basics
The strategy of value investing, in simple terms, means buying stocks of companies that the marketplace has undervalued. The goal is not to invest in no-name companies that haven’t been recognized for their potential – that falls more in the venue of speculative or penny stock investing. Value investors typically buy into strong companies that are trading at low prices that an investor believes don’t reflect the company’s true value. Value investing is all about getting the best deal, similar to getting a great discount on a designer brand. When we say that a stock is undervalued, we mean that an analysis of their financial statements indicates that the price the stock is trading at is lower than it should be, based on the company’s intrinsic value. This might be indicated by things such as a low price-to-book ratio (a financial ratio favored by value investors) and a high dividend yield, which represents the amount in dividends a company pays out each year relative to the price of each share. The marketplace is not always correct in its valuations and thus stocks often simply trade for less than their true worth, at least for a period of time. If you pursue a value investing strategy, the goal is to seek out these undervalued stocks and scoop them up at a favorable price.
### Value Investing Long-Term
The value investing strategy is pretty straightforward, but practicing this method is more involved than you might think, especially when you’re using it as a long-term strategy. It’s important to avoid the temptation to try to make fast cash based on flighty market trends. A value investing strategy is based on buying into strong companies that will maintain their success and that will eventually have their intrinsic worth recognized by the markets. Warren Buffet, one of the greatest and most prolific value investors of the century, famously said, “In the short term, the market is a popularity contest. In the long term, the market is a weighing machine.” Buffet bases his stock choices on the true potential and stability of a company, looking at the whole of each company instead of simply looking at an undervalued price tag that the market has assigned individual shares of the company’s stock. However, he does still prefer to buy stocks he perceives as “on sale”.